Affix (3) 
Cause a subject to be fixed in place. While they are so held they do not
move, breathe, fall, perspire, acquire, or otherwise change. They are totally
immune to harm, in fact. Lasts for 3 minutes.

Amity (4)
The College of Friends always sends out its Factotums on nights after Amity classes. Clearing out the bars and brothels of their drunken apprentices is tiring work. Use of this Spell causes the target to Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or become very friendly towards the wizard, as though they were an old friend. They will not act irrationally, though, and if they were already a bit of a boor this might not change much. 

Animate (2)
Cause inanimate objects to question their place. One object up to the size of a human baby may be caused to hop around and do whatever else the wizard wishes. 

Assassin’s Dagger (3)
Evocatively named but actually quite mundane. The wizard whispers to an object and that object then seeks out and vigorously and repeatedly bumps into the desired target. Obviously if you whisper to a poisoned dagger the result is one thing while doing it to a letter is another. Travels any distance and always arrives (eventually).

Assume Shape (4)
The wizard undergoes a distressing transformation into an inanimate object no larger than a piano and no smaller than a cup. Lasts until ended. 

Astral Reach (1)
The Sorcerers of the Academy of Doors are most famous for this one Spell. With it they may reach through any portal and into another known receptacle. For example they might use it to reach through to a safe in their manse via their purse. This Spell only allows partial translocation— the wizard cannot fully or permanently enter. 

Babble (2)
The wizard speaks nonsense while watching the intended target, causing their words to trip and confuse. This may be done under their breath and relatively subtly. 

Banish Spirit (6)
The wizard explains, clearly, sternly, why it is impossible that the spirit could be here at this time. The spirit must Test its Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or be sent to somewhere less improbable. 

Befuddle (1)
A wizard’s touch can shake up someone’s mind like a snow globe. The target makes all rolls at a -1 penalty until their head clears. Lasts for 3 minutes. 

Blood Shroud (4)
Smear a small amount of a demon’s blood on yourself to become completely invisible to them, even if you attack or speak to them, for 6 hours. 

Breach (2)
The wizard’s hands work elemental material as though it were soft clay. Fire, stone, goo, earth, fog, all of it behaves like clay under their touch. Lasts for 9 minutes. 

Brittle Twigs (2)
You snap a twig or other brittle object to cause an injury in another. They must Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or suffer a broken bone. 

Callous Strike (1)
The Wizard-Knights are most famous for their remote combat whereby they swing their Silver Swords seemingly at nothing only for their opponents, many metres away, to be torn to tatters. This Spell can be used in place of a melee attack by Rolling Versus as normal and inflicting Damage according to the Weapon used. May only be used against targets within clear sight.

Coal Resolve (1)
This Spell turns one’s heart into a burning ember of grief. Those under its effect are so consumed by grief that they are immune to mind controlling effects and the non-physical impact of pain. Lasts until the next rest. 

Cockroach (5)
A popular Spell that turns troublesome folk into humiliated animals. The target must Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or be turned into an insignificant creature of the wizard’s choice. Lasts forever. 

Cone of Air (2)
Creates a mysterious and specifically shaped cone of air focused on a touched target’s head. They may continue to breathe the freshest of air for 12 minutes.

Darkness (3)
Summon a stationary, perfect sphere of darkness up to five metres from the wizard for up to 3 minutes. 

Darksee (1)
The wizard reaches into their sockets and extricates their eyes. Thus freed, the dark void behind can see perfectly well in pitch blackness and suffer excruciating pain in light (-4 penalty to all rolls). Be careful not to lose those eyeballs as re-inserting them is the only way to end the Spell. 

Diminish (2) 
Cause something to Test its Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or reduce its size by half. Lasts 3 minutes.

Drown (4)
Cause a target’s lungs to fill with water. They must Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies). If they fail they start to Drown (7.9) and are incapacitated as water pours from their mouth. They may Test again once per Turn until they pass, at which point the Spell ends. 

Earthquake (5)
The wizard hikes up their wizard robe and stomps their wizard feet. An area 30 metres around them suffers a massive earthquake. Everyone must Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or fall through a crack in the earth, taking falling Damage and being stuck in a bloody great big hole (7.8.1). Buildings may be wrecked unless especially sturdy.

Ember (2)
A simple but effective summoning of fire. Flames the size of a small bonfire appear somewhere within 12 metres of the wizard. Once present there is no accounting for its actions. 

Exchange Shape (5)
What looks like a hug is in fact fell wizardry! The wizard bumps into another and exchanges bodies. Lasts until the wizard chooses to end it but they must be within sight of their own body for this to happen.

Exorcism (1)
The Red Priests posit that all negative behaviour is a symptom of some level of possession, or at least direct influence, by the forces of Change, unwitting agents of Mass in need of healing. The wizard throws salt at their target and Rolls Versus the possessing spirit to cast it out. In the case of a Fumble the spirit is drawn into and possesses the wizard. 

Explode (5)
So simple that it’s arguably not even a Spell but rather a premeditated failure of catastrophic proportions. The wizard causes a one cubic metre object to explode and deal Damage to everyone within 24 metres depending on proximity. Those within 6 metres take Damage as a Gigantic Beast, within 12 as a Large Beast, 18 as a Modest Beast and 24 as a Small Beast. 

Farseeing (2) 
Endows the wizard with engorged, plate-like eyes that are able to see in minute detail for miles around but are unable to see anything up close. Lasts until ended. 

Fear (1)
In the eyes of one poor target the wizard grows into a primal monster from the depths of their lizard brain. They will attempt to flee and if flight is impossible they will curl up in a ball and whimper. They may Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) to resist the illusion. 

Find (2)
When wizards lose their glasses they mumble to themselves until they turn up. The thing being sought must be a specific object, not a general category or type, and the direction is only given in terms of compass points. 

Fire Bolt (1)
Shoot impressive flames from your fingertips, dealing Damage to one target within 20 metres. 

Damage Roll:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7+
3
3
5
7
9
12
16


Flash (3)
The wizard claps neatly and issues forth the light of a thousand suns from their hands. All within 20 metres must Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or be blinded for 1d6 minutes. 

Gills (3)
The wizard may permanently gift a touched subject with gills, replacing their usual breathing arrangement if they fail to Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies). Useful for underwater excursions but less so when inflicted upon a chap in the middle of town. The wizard may end this at will. 

Grow (2)
Cause an item to grow half its size again if it fails to Test its Luck (or Skill for Enemies). Lasts for 3 minutes. 

Helping Hands (1)
Animate hands spring forth from an inanimate surface and perform any task the wizard requires but are limited to being rooted to the spot from which they sprang. They last until the wizard wills it or leaves the location. 

Hurricane (5)
The wizard waves their hands in the air like they just don’t care, which, being wizards, they likely don’t. A mighty gust knocks everyone over within 30 metres who fails to Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies), dealing 1d3 Damage and making an awful mess. Lasts for 10 minutes. Test Luck every Turn if not taking cover or else take further Damage. 

Illusion (2 per viewer)
Those viewing this illusion may Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) to unveil the trickery. Lasts until the wizard leaves or falls asleep. 

Invisibility (3)
The wizard turns flesh into refractive crystal sheets. It’s very uncomfortable and you make a slight shish-ing sound as you move but are quite invisible and don’t suffer from the usual limitations of illusions. Lasts for 3 minutes after which you noisily reform into dull and frustratingly opaque flesh. 

Ironhand (3)
The common man does not appreciate exactly how close flesh and iron are when considered relative to, say, flesh and the smell of hot tea. With some slight convincing the wizard may cause a target’s flesh to behave as though it had the desirable properties of metal. They get +1 Skill and immunity to modestly proportioned fires for 3 minutes. 

Jolt (1)
The mischievous apprentice’s favourite Spell, Jolt sends an arc of electricity from the wizard’s outstretched hand towards a target. Ignores Armour. 

Damage roll
1
2
3
4
5
6
7+
2
2
3
3
5
7
9

Languages (1)
The wizard forms a mouth with their hands through which they can speak any language. They can simultaneously cup their other hand to their ear to understand them in return. Lasts for one conversation. 

Leech (2)
The necromancer must place their hands on a living subject and allow their fingertips to transform into sucking apertures which drain the victim of blood. Deal 2d6 Damage to your victim and regain half as much Stamina. 

Levitate (2)
Elevates the wizard or another on the backs of tiny invisible sprites who answer only to their summoner. May float about for 3 minutes. 

Life Line (1)
Created by the Horizon Knights to enable them to take the fight to the Nothing, they would cast this on their squires and dive off the edge of creation. While this Spell lasts the wizard’s essential bodily functions are linked to another, thereby enabling them to breath or eat for the recipient. They will need to breathe and eat for two, which makes it hard to do anything useful while linked. The Spell lasts for a day, until cancelled, or until the death of the linked person. Note if the linked person dies, starves, or is choked you will suffer equally. 

Light (1)
Create an ethereal orb of light that glows like a torch. Lasts 6 hours and can be extinguished at will. 

Lock (1)
Magically lock an object. The object must have a lockable aspect to it but is now magically sealed. Permanent until undone or dismissed. 

Mirror Selves (3)
In the minds of others the wizard appears to be, in fact, three wizards. All three will perform the same actions in unison, offering attackers only a 1 in 3 chance of targeting the right wizard. Lasts for 12 minutes. 

Natter (1)
As everyone knows, wizards are excellent ventriloquists, so good, in fact, that they can throw their voice inside another’s mouth. They can target anyone within sight and transmit a short sentence.

Open (1)
The wizard chooses a reality wherein the lock was open all along. May be used to open any mundane door or container and counteract a Lock Spell. 

Peace (2)
Open up the mind to universal love and cause two subjects to Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or cease hostilities. They will still defend themselves if attacked but will at least appreciate the pettiness of it. 

Poison (1)
When cast upon a liquid this Spell causes it to become deadly poison. The liquid deals 4 Damage if drunk and 1 Damage per Turn until the target successfully Tests their Luck (or Skill for Enemies). The liquid loses its potency after an hour. 

Posthumous Vitality (5)
Necromancers, known for their social inadequacy, often find themselves having to make friends. This Spell requires a fresh, or at least whole and lubricated, corpse. The wizard rolls 2d6 plus their Posthumous Vitality Skill Total and consults the following chart (13+ counts for an Advancement tick): 4-12 Nothing happens. 13-14 The vitality is clumsily applied, causing the body to explode messily. A new one will need to be found. 15-16 The creature is animated and will last for 24 hours before literally falling to pieces. 17+ Perfect reanimation. The creature will last until destroyed. 

Presence (1)
This Spell creates the sense of being watched by a patriarchal figure. Some find it comforting, others, not so much. 

Protection from Rain (1)
This Spell prevents the wizard from getting rained upon for one shower. 

Purple Lens (1)
The recipient’s eyes glow purple as they experience an alternative reality where people are kind, their surroundings are beautiful, their food is indulgent, and so on. This doesn’t change the reality of things but it does make them more palatable. Lasts until they want it to end. 

Quench (1)
Snuff a small flame with the wave of a hand.

Read Entrails (1)
The wizard can get the answer to one question from the entrails of a living creature. The size and importance of the creature influences the level of knowledge gained. Small, common animals are able to offer yes or no answers, oxen can predict things obtusely, lamassu may offer explicit and thorough advice. 

Read Stars (1)
Rather than physical stars the wizard navigates by astral starlight that peeks through the veil. This Spell enables the wizard to get a reasonable sense of direction regardless of any obscuring factors. 

See Through (1)
The wizard rubs a surface vigorously, making it translucent. Can penetrate up to 12 inches of material. Lead and Silver are immune. 

Sentry (1)
The wizard plucks a bit of their mind out like candy floss and leaves it stuck to a wall somewhere. This psychic presence is invisible to the naked eye but extends the wizard’s senses to that spot for the duration. While it lasts the wizard suffers -1 to all rolls due to the incredible confusion this generates. If the shard is discovered and harmed the wizard will lose 2d6 Stamina due to the shock.

Shatter (3)
The wizard may wildly gesticulate at a brittle object no larger than an umbrella and cause it to shatter into a million pieces. Living targets may Test their Luck to avoid this unpleasant Spell. 

Skeletal Counsel (3) 
Necromancers often talk to skulls. Sometimes they talk back. Use of this Spell enables speaking with the dead, who answer one question per casting. Requires a skull. 

Sleep (2)
The wizard convinces a target to forgo wakefulness for a time, causing them to sleep until woken unless they successfully Test their Luck. Remember: fighting is loud. 

Slide Skywards (6)
Requires mirrors or other highly reflective surfaces. The wizard stands between two reflective surfaces so that they are infinitely repeated. They then step out from between them but as a different incidence of themselves. To those watching the wizard moves in the direction not seen and reappears between two mirrors elsewhere. If the location has been compromised the wizard arrives in a random mirrored location somewhere across the million crystal spheres. 

Starry Orb (4)
The wizard creates a 5th dimensional orb above their head. All intelligent beings looking at it must Test their Luck or marvel at it for 3 minutes. 

Teleport (10)
The wizard or a target of their choosing may travel to any location within a single sphere instantly. If unfamiliar with the location they must Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or be thrown wildly off course to potentially devastating results. 

Thought Vapour (1)
The wizard can cause their nose to exist in multiple alternative realities, travel through various spheres, and enable the olfactory sensation of thought. Emotions, attitudes, and underlying feelings can be smelled. No words or images are formed, just impressions. Any strong odour will cause this Spell to fail. 

Thunder (2)
The wizard raises their arms and shouts something suitably ominous. All within 24 metres must Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or be deafened by a riotous roll of thunder. Luck or no, they will be mightily impressed. 

Tongue Twister (2)
Beware! If a wizard screws their nose and twists their fingers at you then a Tongue Twister is coming your way. The target must Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies) or have their tongue literally tied in knots. This requires some time and a fair bit of patience to disentangle. 

Torpor (3)
Those who study the dead consider it necessary to develop a profound sympathy with their subject — how can you speak with the dead if you don’t understand the dead? Torpor helps build post-mortem empathy by causing the necromancer to temporarily die. Bodily functions are halted, no food, water, or air is needed, and they are, by most vulgar definitions of the word, dead. The Spell lasts until ended by the wizard, who remains vaguely aware of their surroundings to the extent of being conscious of sound and movement but not of what is said or who is saying it. They will still take Damage from bodily abuse while under the effect and can indeed become irretrievably dead. 

True Seeing (3)
The wizard focuses their sight on the unambiguous truth of matter, enabling them to see through illusions for the next 10 minutes.

 Undo (double cost of original Spell) 
The wizard disentangles a Spell from this instance of reality. To do so they must Roll Versus the original casting if disentanglement is possible at all. 


Ward (1)
A handy Spell only requiring the flick of a wrist. In response to being fired upon the wizard may cast this Spell to cause the missile to be deflected. 

Wall of Power (2)
What they call a wall is in fact a dome, but wizards always have worked in mysterious ways. The wall is a shimmering bubble that causes 1d6 Damage when touched. Nothing may pass without the wizard’s permission (it is recommended that they remember to allow air). Lasts for 12 minutes. 

Web (2)
Whether this is opening a portal to the plane of slime or channelling the sprites of sickness, all can agree that it is quite disgusting. The wizard blows forth the “web” from their nose and all in a cone extending 12 metres in front of the wizard are trapped unless they Test their Luck (or Skill for Enemies). Each Turn anything passing through or out of it must repeat the Test or become stuck. Dries up after 12 rounds. 

Zed (?)
No one knows what this does but everyone who has cast it disappears instantly, never to be seen again. 